The generator is, I think the most interesting part of a GAN because
its job is to really learn something about the underlying structure of training data.
In the case of our house numbers,
the generator should learn what shape and color features make up
these images and then it will learn to imagine in that space,
combining these features in new ways to create realistic generated images.
As before, the input to the generator is a random vector Z,
usually with something around a 100 values.
The output of the generator,
it needs to be an image that can be sent to the discriminator.
That means, we need to up-sample the vector Z until we get
to an image that is 32 by 32 by three,
the same shape as our training images.
This may remind you of the autoencoder lesson,
in which we up-sampled a compressed input using
nearest neighbor interpolation or transpose convolutional layers.
For this generator, we're going to use what was found successful in
the original DCGAN model, transposed convolutions.
To review, transposed convolutional layers are
similar to the convolutions you know and love,
but with the opposite effect.
With convolutional layers, you typically go from
shallow and wide inputs to deep and narrow outputs,
but with transposed convolutional layers,
you go from narrow and deep inputs like vectors to wide and flat outputs like images.
This is a diagram of the DCGAN generator
showing the transposed convolutions progressively up-sampling the layers.
Consider using a layer with a stride of two.
When you move the convolutional kernel,
one pixel in the input layer,
the kernel will move two pixels in the output layer.
So, it's moving two pixels in the output layer for every one in
the input layer and the output layer size depends on the stride.
With a stride of two, the transposed convolutional layer output
will be twice the width and height of the input layer.
Now, the first step in the generator is to
connect the input vector Z to a fully connected layer.
Then, we'll reshape that fully-connected layer to
a four-by-four XY shape with some depth that we specify.
Then, we build a stack of larger layers by up-sampling with transposed convolution.
Each layer is doubled in XY size using strides of two.
So, from four to eight to 16 and then 32.
Simultaneously, the depth is reduced as we move forward through these layers.
The final layer, the output of the generator is a 32 by 32 by three convolutional layer,
which is exactly what we want as the size of our generated images.
For the generator, the authors of this original GAN paper use
real activations and batch normalization on all hidden layers.
The last layer is the only one that should not have batch normalization.
Instead, we'll just be applying
a tanh activation function to the outputs of the final layer.
This will give us a desired output pixel values in a range from negative one to one.
So, this completes our GAN architecture.
We'll have two adversarial networks and the training and
optimization strategies will be the same as what you've seen before.
Next up, you'll learn more about batch normalization.
With batch normalization, you'll be able to create
deeper networks for the GAN and get better results.